docs: testnet 5 documentation for Babylon validators (#369)
babylonlabs-io/networks: bbn-test-5/babylon-validators/README.md

# Babylon Validator Setup

## Table of Contents

1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
2. [Setup](#setup) \
   2.1. [Setup Node and Configure](#setup-node-and-configure) \
   2.2. [Build node from `x` tag](#build-node-from-x-tag) \
   2.3. [Initialize the chain](#initialize-the-chain) \
   2.4. [Update the configuration](#update-the-configuration) \
   2.5. [Retrieve the genesis file](#retrieve-the-genesis-file) \
   2.6. [Create a Keyring](#create-a-keyring) \
   2.7. [Get Funds](#get-funds) \
   2.8. [What is BLS Voting](#what-is-bls-voting) \
   2.9. [Create BLS Key](#create-bls-key)
3. [Run Node](#run-node)
4. [Create Validator](#create-validator)
5. [Verify your Validator](#verify-your-validator)

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## System Requirements
```

> This system spec has been tested by validators and found to be comfortable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Babylon node is built using the Cosmos SDK and has similar
system requirements with typical Cosmos SDK ecosystem nodes.
As a reference,
the following system specification is typically used by validators and
found to be comfortable for high up-time operations.
```

- Quad Core or larger AMD or Intel (amd64) CPU
- 32GB RAM
- 1TB NVMe Storage
- 100MBps bidirectional internet connection

> 
> You can run Babylon on lower-spec hardware for each component, but you may find that it is not highly performant or prone to crashing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Note that the above is a sample system specification that might not fit your specific infrastructure.
Please do your own research before committing to a setup and verifying that it can scale well
depending on your operations and needs.

```

> ## Setup

Reviewer: I don't think we need this section. I recommend we have the following steps:

1. Install Babylon binary (download go, download babylon codebase, build/install).
2. Setup your home directory and configure it.
3. Setup the required keys for operating a validator (CometBFT key and BLS key) -- should contain an explanation of what these keys are and why they are needed. 
4. Sync your node (brief explanation on where to find nodes to connect to or a snapshot -- no need to give much tech details on that). 
5. Receive the necessary funds for creating your validator (explain why funds are needed).
6. Create validator (with brief explanation of the epoching mechanism).

We need to setup the following before we can classify as a validator. 
- Setup node and configure
- Create keyring
- Get funds
- Create BLS Key
- Run node

### Setup Node and Configure

<!-- TODO: check add in the correct tag for the testnet -->
#### Build node from `x` tag. 

Here we will checkout the tag in which we will use. 

` git checkout x`

> #### Initialize the chain

Reviewer: This initializes the home directory.

Run  `babylond init --chain-id bbn-test-5` in the terminal 

> It should generate all of the necessary files such as `app.toml`, `client.toml`, `genesis.json`

Reviewer: Does it generate a `genesis.json`?

#### Update the configuration

We need to then change the configuration details in the following files. 

> - In `app.toml` under `[btc-network]`change network to `signet` and `iavl-cache-size = 0`

Reviewer: Why do we need to set the `iavl-cache-size` to `0`? Also, this might be interpreted as `iavl-cache-size` being under `btc-network`.

Reviewer 2: We discovered this on devnet-3 and confirmed that this flag is needed during this round of performance benchmarking. Basically it prevents the memory of the node from becoming too big.
We also need to add `iavl-disable-fastnode=true`.

@KonradStaniec can suggest the exact justification to provide on the doc for this.

> - In the `config.toml` add in the `seeds` and `persistent-peers` token (this can be the same token)

Reviewer: We should instruct the user on where they can find values for these.

#### Retrieve the genesis file 

We next want to add in the genesis file from thee network. How we can do this is either copy the genesis file from  `https://rpc.devnet.babylonlabs.io/genesis` or we can use the terminal.

```
wget https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/networks/raw/main/bbn-test-5/genesis.tar.bz2  
tar -xjf genesis.tar.bz2 && rm genesis.tar.bz2  
mv genesis.json ~/.babylond/config/genesis.json
```

> This file needs to overwrite the existing genesis file in the `~/.babylond/config/genesis.json` and please ensure that the `chain-id` is correct.

Reviewer: How can someone verify that `chain-id` is correct?

#### Create a Keyring

What we want to do next is create a key we can do this by running:

`babylond --keyring-backend test keys add <name>`

> We use `--keyring-backend test`, which specifies which backend to use for the keyring, `test` stores keys unencrypted on disk. At the end we add a `name` which is the name in which we will give to the key. 

Reviewer: Does the validator have to use a `test` keyring? If not, what other options do they have? 
```suggestion
We use `--keyring-backend test`, which specifies which backend to use for the keyring, `test` stores keys unencrypted on disk. The `<name>` specifies a unique identifier for the key.
```

Reviewer: Is this something we should denote?

> What should return is a message that the key was added successfully. An example of what this should look like is below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The execution result displays the address of the newly generated key and its public key.
Following is a sample output for the command:
```

```
- address: bbn1kvajzzn6gtfn2x6ujfvd6q54etzxnqg7pkylk9
  name: test-val
  pubkey: '{"@type":"/cosmos.crypto.secp256k1.PubKey","key":"Ayau+8f945c1iQp9tfTVaCT5lzhD8n4MRkZNqpoL6Tpo"}'
  type: local
```

#### Get Funds
<!-- This needs to be updated to the correct testnet and potentially need help with the correct instructions as I cant access the faucet -->

> Request Funds from the Babylon Testnet Faucet​ [here](https://faucet.devnet.babylonlabs.io/) 

Reviewer: Why does someone need funds?

Reviewer: I mean that we need to explain why someone needs funds and what they will be used for.

> ##### What is BLS Voting

Reviewer: We can provide a brief explanation of BLS voting here and work on developing a separate technical document explaining the need for BLS. We can link to this document from here. Let's add a task on developing this document.

>  BLS (Boneh-Lynn-Shacham) voting is used to create compact checkpoints at the end of each epoch. An epoch is a fixed period within the blockchain, defined or set by a number of blocks, during which a validator set remains consistent. This stability allows Babylon to create and submit checkpoints only once per epoch, reducing the overhead of interacting with the Bitcoin blockchain.

Reviewer: Let's wrap lines to 80 characters for markdown files

>  BLS (Boneh-Lynn-Shacham) voting is used to create compact checkpoints at the end of each epoch. An epoch is a fixed period within the blockchain, defined or set by a number of blocks, during which a validator set remains consistent. This stability allows Babylon to create and submit checkpoints only once per epoch, reducing the overhead of interacting with the Bitcoin blockchain.

Reviewer: We can have a link for `BLS`.

The primary difference between BLS voting and regular voting is the signature aggregation. This allows Babylon to create very compact proofs of validator participation, which can be efficiently stored and verified on Bitcoin. This mechanism is crucial for Babylon's security model, enabling it to leverage Bitcoin's security while maintaining its own Proof-of-Stake system.

#### Create BLS Key

Validators are expected to submit a BLS signature at the end of each epoch. To do that, a validator needs to have a BLS key pair to sign information with.

Using your address from the keyring generation run:
`babylond create-bls-key <address>`

Your address should be the one that was generated in the keyring generation step and looks something like this: `bbn1kvajzzn6gtfn2x6ujfvd6q54etzxnqg7pkylk9`

This command will create a BLS key and add it to the `~/.babylond/config/priv_validator_key.json` that was generated when `init` was run.

### Run Node

We are now ready to run the node.

> `./build/babylond start --chain-id=bbn-test-5 --home=./nodeDir --log_level=info --minimum-gas-prices=0.005ubbn`

Reviewer: Do we need to add all of these CLI flags? Also, why are we working with the `build` directory? We can instruct users to do `install` and work with just `babylond` for the rest of the document. We can have a brief note about using `build` and specifying the `/build` directory, and let more advanced users figure out where the binary is themselves for the rest of the doc.

Reviewer 2: Regarding the flags:
Log level can be left out.
As for gas prices, we can put this config directly into the corresponding configuration file - otherwise, the user has to specify it every time.
In the existing docs and in the infra, I see that we also use `--x-crisis-skip-assert-invariants`. Does it make sense to include it here?

Regarding build vs install:
I'd recommend install so that the user can change directories w/o worrying about the relative babylond binary path.

# Babylon Validator Setup

## Table of Contents

1. [System Requirements](#system-requirements)
2. [Install Babylon Binary](#install-babylon-binary)
3. [Setup Node Home Directory and Configure](#setup-your-node-home-directory-and-configure)
4. [Setup Required Keys](#setup-the-required-keys-for-operating-a-validator)
5. [Sync Node](#sync-node)
6. [Get Funds](#get-funds)
7. [Create Validator](#create-validator)

## System Requirements

The Babylon node is built using the Cosmos SDK and has similar system requirements with typical Cosmos SDK ecosystem nodes.

As a reference, the following system specification is typically used by validators and found to be comfortable for high up-time operations.

- Quad Core or larger AMD or Intel (amd64) CPU
- 32GB RAM

> - 1TB NVMe Storage

Reviewer 2: From the node benchmark, we estimate that we require 2TB to store 1M BTC delegations.
I suggest that we adjust this requirement accordingly to 2TB of storage, at least.

- 100MBps bidirectional internet connection

Note: the above is a sample system specification that might not fit your specific infrastructure. Please do your own research before committing to a
setup and verifying that it can scale well depending on your operations and needs.

## Install Babylon Binary 
<!-- TODO: check add in the correct tag for the testnet -->
Download [Golang 1.21](https://go.dev/dl) 

Using the go version 1.21.x (where x is any patch version like 1.21.0, 1.21.1, etc.)
Once installed run: 

```shell
go version
```

To ensure you are using the correct version, the terminal should return something similar to the below.

```shell
go: downloading go1.21 (darwin/arm64)

> ```

Reviewer 2: I'd remove this one, the above command already confirms that we're using the correct version.

Subsequently clone the babylon [repository](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/babylon).

```shell
git clone git@github.com:babylonlabs-io/babylon.git
```

> Once the `babylon` repository is downloaded then checkout the corresponding tag for `bbn-testnet-5`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the `babylon` repository is downloaded then checkout the corresponding tag for `bbn-testnet-5` (to be specified once available).
```

If it hasn't saved successfully in your gopath then it might have saved in the `./build` directory, so instead use the following from the project root directory.

```shell
./build/babylond
```
## Setup your node, home directory and configure 

Next we initialize the node and home directory. It should generate all of the necessary files such as `app.toml`, `client.toml`, `genesis.json` with the below command.

```shell
babylond init <moniker> --chain-id bbn-test-5 --home=./nodeDir
```

The `<moniker>` is a unique identifier for your node. So for example `node0`.

  Next we should navigate to `app.toml`, update the following section:

```shell
Base configuration
iavl-cache-size = 0

[btc-config]

# Configures which bitcoin network should be used for checkpointing
# valid values are: [mainnet, testnet, simnet, signet, regtest]
network = "signet"
```

In `app.toml` under `[btc-network]`change network to `signet` and `iavl-cache-size = 0` instead of what is listed in the automatically generated template.

Navigate to `config.toml`. Add in your seed that should look something like this `8fa2d1ab10dfd99a51703ba760f0ef555ae88f36@16.162.207.201:26656`

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: Only need to add the seed in the seed section.

Reviewer 2: You only need to put the seed in the seeds config field.

```
wget https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/networks/raw/main/bbn-test-5/genesis.tar.bz2
tar -xjf genesis.tar.bz2 && rm genesis.tar.bz2
mv genesis.json ~/.babylond/config/genesis.json
```

This file needs to overwrite the existing genesis file in the `~/.babylond/config/genesis.json` and please ensure that the `chain-id` is correct. The chain id is what you used in the `babylond init` command above.
## Setup the required keys for operating a validator 

### Keys for a CometBFT validator

Setting up the key is crucial as it serves as the validator's identity. The key-pair will be used for signing blocks, participating in consensus and managing validator operations. To add a key run the following command:

```shell
babylond --keyring-backend test keys add <name> --home=./nodeDir
```
  
We use `--keyring-backend test`, which specifies which backend to use for the keyring, `test` stores keys unencrypted on disk. The `<name>` specifies a unique identifier for the key.

The execution result displays the address of the newly generated key and its public key. Following is a sample output for the command:

```shell
- address: bbn1kvajzzn6gtfn2x6ujfvd6q54etzxnqg7pkylk9

> name: test-val

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
name: <name>
```

How about that, as you also used <name> in the above cmd?

pubkey: '{"@type":"/cosmos.crypto.secp256k1.PubKey","key":"Ayau+8f945c1iQp9tfTVaCT5lzhD8n4MRkZNqpoL6Tpo"}'

type: local
```
### Keys for a BLS Voting
#### What is BLS Voting

BLS (Boneh-Lynn-Shacham) voting is used to create compact checkpoints at the end of each epoch. An epoch is a fixed period within the blockchain, defined or set by a number of blocks, during which a validator set remains consistent. This stability allows Babylon to create and submit checkpoints only once per epoch, reducing the overhead of interacting with the Bitcoin blockchain.

To read more on BLS Voting please see [here](#)
#### Create BLS Key

Validators are expected to submit a BLS signature at the end of each epoch. To do that, a validator needs to have a BLS key pair to sign information with.

Using your address from the keyring generation run:

```shell
babylond create-bls-key <address>
```

Your address should be the one that was generated in the keyring generation step and looks something like this: `bbn1kvajzzn6gtfn2x6ujfvd6q54etzxnqg7pkylk9`.

> This command will create a BLS key and add it to the `~/.babylond/config/priv_validator_key.json` that was generated when `init` was run.

Reviewer 2: During the init, you used `.nodeDir` as the bbn folder.
We should either re-use it here or convert to `.babylond` everywhere.

Reviewer 2: Fine with the `nodeDir`.

#### Connect to Nodes

To connect your node to the network, you'll need peer addresses.
<!-- insert links when we have them -->

As mentioned in the configuration step, add these to your `config.toml` under `persistent_peers` or `seeds`.
#### Use a Snapshot

For faster syncing, you can use a snapshot instead of syncing from genesis. Snapshots are 
periodic backups of the chain state. Find them at:
<!-- - add link here -->

Note: Always verify snapshot sources and checksums before using them to ensure security.

## Get Funds
<!-- This needs to be updated to the correct testnet and potentially need help with the correct instructions as I cant access the faucet -->

Request Funds from the Babylon Testnet Faucet​ [here](https://faucet.devnet.babylonlabs.io/)

## Create Validator

Contrary to a vanilla Cosmos SDK chain, a validator for Babylon is created through the `babylond tx checkpointing create-validator` command. This command expects that a BLS validator key exists under the `~/.babylond/config/priv_validator_key.json`.

To create the validator (using sample parameters):

```
babylond tx checkpointing create-validator ./dir/node0/babylond/config/priv_validator_key.json\

> --chain-id="devnet-2" \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
--chain-id="bbn-test-5" \
```

# Babylon Validator Setup

Before setting up a validator, you'll need:
1. A fully synced Babylon node. For node setup instructions, see our 
[Node Setup Guide](../babylon-node/README.md)
2. Sufficient BBN tokens. For instructions on obtaining BBN tokens, see the 
[Get Funds section](../babylon-node/README.md#get-funds) in the Node Setup Guide.

## System Requirements

> Recommended specifications for running a Babylon validator node:

Reviewer 2: Here, we should add a node that for RPC nodes, more RAM is required. Let's do it on the next iteration, once we have completed the RPC node load test.

- CPU: Quad Core AMD/Intel (amd64)
- RAM: 32GB
- Storage: 2TB NVMe
- Network: 100MBps bidirectional
- Encrypted storage for keys and sensitive data
- Regular system backups (hourly, daily, weekly)
- DDoS protection

> - Hardware security modules (HSMs) recommended for key storage

Reviewer 3: While normal Cosmos SDK chain can use HSM for the validator. 
I'm unsure if we can support make the BLS key works with HSM or not

>Note: These are reference specifications for a production validator. 
>Requirements may vary based on network activity and your operational needs.

## Setup the required keys for operating a validator 
### Keys for a CometBFT validator

> >Note: if you already have set up a key, you can skip this section.

Reviewer 2: If we bring the keyring setup section in this doc, we won't have to duplicate this info.

for checkpointing in the Bitcoin blockchain.

### Create BLS Key

To generate your BLS key, you'll need to use your validator address from the previous step. 
Run this command:

```shell
babylond create-bls-key <address>
```

Replace `<address>` with your validator address from the earlier keyring 
generation (it should look similar to `bbn1kvajzzn6gtfn2x6ujfvd6q54etzxnqg7pkylk9`). 

The system will automatically:
1. Generate a new BLS key pair
2. Associate it with your validator address
3. Store it in your node's configuration file at 
`~/.<path>/config/priv_validator_key.json`

This key will be used automatically by your validator software when it needs 
to participate in epoch-end signature collection. The BLS signatures help 
create compact, efficient proofs of consensus that can be later timestamped to Bitcoin.

Important: The `priv_validator_key.json` file contains sensitive key material. 
Make sure to backup this file and store it securely, as it's essential for your 
validator's operation and cannot be recovered if lost.

## Prepare Validator Configuration

Create your validator configuration file:

```shell
cat > <path>/config/validator.json << EOF
{

>   "pubkey": $(cat pubkey.json),

Reviewer 3: Where can I find the `pubkey.json`?
Looks like it's generated from `babylond tendermint show-validator` command

  "amount": "1000ubbn",
  "moniker": "my-validator",
  "commission-rate": "0.10",
  "commission-max-rate": "0.20",
  "commission-max-change-rate": "0.01",
  "min-self-delegation": "1"
}
EOF
```

This command creates the configuration file with your validator settings:
- `pubkey`: Your validator's public key
- `amount`: Initial self-delegation amount
- `moniker`: Your validator's name
- `commission-rate`: Current commission rate
- `commission-max-rate`: Maximum commission rate
- `commission-max-change-rate`: Maximum daily commission change 
- `min-self-delegation`: Minimum self-delegation amount

> Note: The command will create the file if it doesn't exist. No need for a separate `touch` command.

## Creating Validator

Unlike traditional Cosmos SDK chains that use the `staking` module, 

> Babylon uses the `checkpointing` module for validator creation and management.

Reviewer 2: Is this our custom module? If so, we can mention it.

The creation process requires your previously generated BLS key, 
which should be located at `<path>/config/priv_validator_key.json`, 
where `<path>` is the `--home` directory you specified when setting up your node.

To create your validator, run the following command:

```shell 
babylond tx checkpointing create-validator \
    ./<path>/config/validator.json \
    --chain-id bbn-test-5 \
    --gas "auto" \
    --gas-adjustment 1.5 \
    --gas-prices "0.005ubbn" \
    --from <your-key-name>

> ```

Reviewer 3: Do we need to add the `--keyring-backend test` here?

Reviewer 3: Resolved as the [key creation command](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/networks/blob/35145f8c59faab7d5630cd18b2b29783c3d8e6c4/bbn-test-5/babylon-validators/README.md?plain=1#L38) doesn't use `--keyring-backend test` anymore.

- `--chain-id`: The network identifier
- `--gas`: Set to "auto" to automatically calculate the gas needed
- `--gas-adjustment`: A multiplier for the estimated gas (1.5 adds 50% extra for safety)
- `--gas-prices`: Transaction fee in ubbn per unit of gas
- `--from`: Your key name or address that will sign and pay for this transaction

Upon successful creation, you'll be asked to approve the transaction. 
Once approved, you'll receive a transaction hash and your validator
operator address 
(e.g., `bbnvaloper1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`).

### Verifying Validator Setup

1. First, get your validator's operator address using your Babylon address: 
```shell

> babylond keys show <your-key-name> --address --bech val --home <path>--keyring-backend test

Reviewer 3: babylond keys show <your-key-name> --address --bech val --home <path> --keyring-backend test

## Advanced Security Architecture

Validators should be run with additional security measures:

**Sentry Node Architecture**  
For enhanced security, validators should implement a sentry node architecture. 
This involves deploying sentry nodes as a protective layer around your 
validator node, following the established [Cosmos Sentry Node Architecture](https://forum.cosmos.network/t/sentry-node-architecture-overview/454). 
The sentry nodes act as a buffer between your validator and the public network, 
with a private network maintained between your validator and its sentry nodes. 
This architecture helps protect your validator from DDoS attacks and other 
network-level threats by ensuring your validator only communicates with trusted 
sentry nodes rather than directly with the public network.

## Enhanced Monitoring

In addition to basic node monitoring, validators should:

1. Monitor validator performance metrics
   - Signing performance
   - Missed blocks
   - Voting power changes
   - BLS signing status

2. Set up alerts for:
   - Slashing conditions
   - Validator status changes
   - Network participation metrics
   - System resource thresholds

> ### Prometheus Configuration

Reviewer 2: Why do we duplicate all the info here? We can merge it all to the node doc - except for info that's validator-specific.

The Babylon node exposes metrics through two Prometheus endpoints:
- Port 1317: API metrics

> - Port 26660: Tendermint metrics

Reviewer 3: Is it still Tendermint, or has it become CometBFT now?

- `--keyring-backend` specifies the keyring backend to use, can be `test`, `file`, 
or `os`.

The execution result displays the address of the newly generated key and its 
public key. Following is a sample output for the command:

```shell
- address: bbn1kvajzzn6gtfn2x6ujfvd6q54etzxnqg7pkylk9
  name: <name>
  pubkey: '{"@type":"/cosmos.crypto.secp256k1.PubKey",
           key: "Ayau+8f945c1iQp9tfTVaCT5lzhD8n4MRkZNqpoL6Tpo"}'
  type: local
```

> **Security Tip 🔒**: Make sure to securely store this information, particularly 
> your address and private key details. Losing access to these credentials would 
> mean losing control of your validator and any staked funds.

#### 3.1.1 Get Funds

Funds are necessary to interact with the Babylon network and run a validator. 
To source funds you will need to request them from the Babylon Testnet Faucet.

<!-- TODO: add information or commands on how to request funds from the faucet -->

### 3.2 Keys for a BLS Voting
#### 3.2.1 What is BLS Voting

Babylon validators are required to participate in
[BLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLS_digital_signature) voting
at the end of each epoch.
The Babylon blockchain defines epochs as a fixed period

> within the blockchain, defined or set by a number of blocks,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
within the blockchain, defined by a number of blocks,
```

The BLS voting mechanism achieves a significant reduction in the cost of
checkpoints, while the epoching mechanism specifies a defined frequency
for checkpointing in the Bitcoin blockchain.

#### 3.2.2 Create BLS Key

To generate your BLS key, you'll need to use your validator address from the 
previous step. 

Run this command:

```shell
babylond create-bls-key <address>
```

Replace `<address>` with your address from the earlier keyring 
generation (it should look similar to `bbn1kvajzzn6gtfn2x6ujfvd6q54etzxnqg7pkylk9`). 

The above command will:
1. Generate a new BLS key pair
2. Associate it with your validator address
3. Store it in your node's configuration file at 
`~/.<path>/config/priv_validator_key.json`

This key will be used automatically by your validator software when it needs 
to participate in epoch-end signature collection. The BLS signatures help 
create compact, efficient proofs of consensus that can be later timestamped to Bitcoin.

> ⚠️ **Important**: The `priv_validator_key.json` file contains sensitive key 
> material. Make sure to backup this file and store it securely, as it's 
> essential for your validator's operation and cannot be recovered if lost.

> 

Reviewer: We should add a security note here that the BLS key is not supported by horcrux and remote signing programs at the moment.

## 4. CometBFT Validator Configuration

Next, we need to request the bls public key in order to create the validator 

> configuration file.

Reviewer: Not sure what you mean by this sentence. We are not requesting anything related to BLS, but we are asking for the validator keys.

```shell
babylond tendermint show-validator --home <home>
```

It will output a public key in the following format:

```shell
{"@type":"/cosmos.crypto.ed25519.PubKey","key":"0Wlt7ZPl0uvv7onsw4gP8FSQJUk986zMcOdWselDPM4="}
```

Use the output of the command above and replace the `pubkey` value in the example below. 
Then subsequently run the following command to create the validator configuration file:

```shell
cat > <home>/config/validator.json << EOF
{
  "pubkey": {"@type":"/cosmos.crypto.ed25519.PubKey","key":"0Wlt7ZPl0uvv7onsw4gP8FSQJUk986zMcOdWselDPM4="},
  "amount": "1000000ubbn",
  "moniker": "my-validator",
  "commission-rate": "0.10",
  "commission-max-rate": "0.20",
  "commission-max-change-rate": "0.01",
  "min-self-delegation": "1"
}
EOF
```

Parameters:

> - `pubkey`: Your validator's public key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `pubkey`: Your validator's public key (the output you received before)
```

- `amount`: Initial self-delegation amount
- `moniker`: Your validator's name/identifier

> - `commission-rate`: Current commission rate 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `commission-rate`: Validator commission rate 
```

> - `commission-max-rate`: Maximum commission rate allowed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `commission-max-rate`: Specifies the maximum you can raise your commission in the future.
```

- `commission-max-change-rate`: Maximum daily commission change rate
- `min-self-delegation`: Minimum amount you must keep self-delegated

> 

Reviewer: Can we verify that all the above parameters are available on SDK v0.50?

If you prefer to add this manually or are having issues, another option is to 
create a `validator.json` file and then paste the above json into it but remember

> to replace the `pubkey` value with your actual validator public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to replace all values with the actual values you want to use.
```

## 5. Creating a Validator

> > ⚠️ **Important**: You will need a funded account for this step
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ **Important**: You will need a funded account for this step

> ⚠️ **Important**: Please make sure to read through this section
> as it might not work with your automations for creating validators.
```

Unlike traditional Cosmos SDK chains that use the `staking` module, 
Babylon uses the [`checkpointing`](https://docs.babylonlabs.io/docs/developer-guides/modules/checkpointing) module for validator creation and management.

The creation process requires your previously generated BLS key, 

> which should be located at `<path>/config/priv_validator_key.json`, 

Reviewer: This file contains both the validator and the BLS key. Why does the process require the BLS key specifically?

    --from <your-key-name>
    --keyring-backend <keyring-backend>
```

Parameters:
- `--chain-id`: The network identifier
- `--gas`: Set to "auto" to automatically calculate the gas needed
- `--gas-adjustment`: A multiplier for the estimated gas 
- `--gas-prices`: Transaction fee in ubbn per unit of gas
- `--from`: Your key name or address that will sign and pay for this transaction

Upon successful creation, you'll be asked to approve the transaction. 
Once approved, you'll receive a transaction hash and your validator
operator address 
(e.g., `bbnvaloper1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`).

### 5.1 Verifying Validator Setup

To verify your validator setup, you can use the following steps:

First, get your validator's operator address using your Babylon address: 

```shell
babylond keys show <your-key-name> --address --bech val --home <path> --keyring-backend <keyring-backend>
```

For example, for the address we used above is `bbn1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`, 
the operator address is `bbnvaloper1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`. 

Next, inspect your validator's details: 

```shell 
babylond query staking validator <validator-operator-address>
```

> The output should return the selected validator's configuration.

Reviewer: Can we verify that this command immediately returns the details and the details are not presented at the start of the next epoch? If the details are only presented at start of the next epoch, we should give the reader a brief reminder on epochs and the need to wait (and how long). We could tell them to look by transaction hash initially to verify success, and later check their validator registration.

Otherwise, if this returns results immediately, then all good.

```yaml 
validator:
  commission:
    rates:
      current: "100000000000000000" 
      max: "1000000000000000000" 
      max_change: "10000000000000000"
  description:
    moniker: "my-validator" 
    website: "https://myweb.site" 
    security_contact: "my-validator0@gmail.com"
  status: 1 
  tokens: "100"
```

Usually when first creating a validator, the immediate status will be 

> `BOND_STATUS_UNBONDED`. To see your validators status change you will need to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`BOND_STATUS_UNBONDED`. To see your validator's status change you will need to 
```

The status will only change if they are to become active right? This is not guaranteed

wait for the epoch to end.

```shell 

> babylond query staking validators

Reviewer: Why do we outline this command here?

```

### 5.2 Understanding Validator Status

Your validator enters the active set based on two conditions: 

> 1. The completion of the current epoch (a network-wide time period for 
> coordinating activities) 
> 2. Having sufficient stake to qualify for the active set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Having sufficient stake to qualify for the active set.
2. The completion of the epoch (a network-wide time period for 
coordinating activities) in which your validator qualified for the active set.
```

When active, your status will show as `BOND_STATUS_BONDED`.

The other status codes are:

```shell
BOND_STATUS_UNSPECIFIED = 0
BOND_STATUS_UNBONDED = 1
BOND_STATUS_UNBONDING = 2
BOND_STATUS_BONDED = 3
```

### 5.3 Managing Your Validator

> For validator operations, use the standard Cosmos SDK staking module commands:

Reviewer: This is not right. The `epoching` module should be used for staking commands. We should heavily emphasize here that (1) `x/epoching` module wraps the commands of `x/staking` and (2) all staking related transactions will take into effect at the end of the epoch.

```shell
# Delegate tokens to a validator
babylond tx staking delegate [validator-addr] [amount] --from <delegator-key> --chain-id <chain-id>
```

```shell
# Redelegate tokens from one validator to another
babylond tx staking redelegate [src-validator-addr] [dst-validator-addr] [amount] --from <delegator-key> --chain-id <chain-id>
```

```shell
# Unbond tokens from a validator
babylond tx staking unbond [validator-addr] [amount] --from <delegator-key> --chain-id <chain-id>
```

We use wrapped messages for BTC staking operations, where operations need to be 
synchronized with Bitcoin epochs. For more information on the epoching module and 
wrapped messages, see the [Epoching Module](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/babylon/blob/main/x/epoching/README.md?plain=1#L150-L155) documentation. 

> Regular validator operations use the standard Cosmos SDK staking commands, see 

Reviewer: Not sure if that's true.

the [Cosmos SDK Staking documentation](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/build/modules/staking) 
for more information.

## 6. Advanced Security Architecture

> We suggest using additional security measures to protect your validator. The best 

Reviewer: We should not suggest anything here, this might imply liability.

We should note that this section involves only security considerations and it is up to the reader to do their own research and understand what's the best setup for them. Also, we should outline considerations about the `priv_validator_key.json` file here and general key safety.

5. [Creating a Validator](#5-creating-a-validator)
   1. [Verifying Validator Setup](#51-verifying-validator-setup)
   2. [Understanding Validator Status](#52-understanding-validator-status)
   3. [Managing Your Validator](#53-managing-your-validator)
6. [Advanced Security Architecture](#6-advanced-security-architecture)
7. [Conclusion](#7-conclusion)
<!-- 7. [Enhanced Monitoring](#7-enhanced-monitoring)
   1. [Prometheus Configuration](#71-prometheus-configuration)
   2. [Basic Health Checks](#72-basic-health-checks) -->

## 1. Prerequisites

Before setting up a validator, you'll need a fully synced Babylon node. For 
node setup instructions, see our [Node Setup Guide](../babylon-node/README.md).

## 2. System Requirements

Recommended specifications for running a Babylon validator node:
- CPU: Quad Core AMD/Intel (amd64)
- RAM: 32GB
- Storage: 2TB NVMe
- Network: 100MBps bidirectional
- Encrypted storage for keys and sensitive data
- Regular system backups (hourly, daily, weekly)

These are reference specifications for a production validator. 
Requirements may vary based on network activity and your operational needs.

## 3. Key Management

> ### 3.1 Key for CometBFT consensus

Reviewer: I think we are missing something here. The key used for CometBFT consensus is the one that is stored on `<home>/config/priv_validator_key.json`. Did a minor test and it seems that this file is created when the user does `babylond init` to iinitialize their home directory.

The above means that the key for the CometBFT is already on `priv_validator_key.json` when the user reaches this section. Instead, the instructions that we are giving here are about creating a key in the application layer (i.e. a Babylon account) to be associated with the CometBFT key to be used for Consensus.

Therefore I recommend we structure section 3 as follows:

- 3.1.: Key for CometBFT consensus: Contains small note about the key being in the `priv_validator_key.json` file when initializing.
- 3.2.: Babylon validator account keyring: The below section as is with some additional note on this being the application layer account associated with the CometBFT key.
- 3.3.: BLS key: same as it is

Run this command:

```shell
babylond create-bls-key <bbn-address> --home <path>
```

Replace `<address>` with your address from the earlier keyring 
generation (it should look similar to `bbn1kvajzzn6gtfn2x6ujfvd6q54etzxnqg7pkylk9`). 

The above command will:
1. Generate a new BLS key pair
2. Associate it with your validator address
3. Store it in your node's configuration file at 
`~/.<path>/config/priv_validator_key.json` alongside your validator key

This key will be used automatically by your validator software when it needs 
to participate in epoch-end signature collection. The BLS signatures help 
create compact, efficient proofs of consensus that can be later timestamped to 
Bitcoin.

> ⚠️ **Important**: The `priv_validator_key.json` file contains sensitive key 
> material. Make sure to backup this file and store it securely, as it's 
> essential for your validator's operation and cannot be recovered if lost.
> Note that BLS keys are currently not supported by Horcrux or other remote signing 
> solutions, so alternative security measures should be considered for key 
> management such as hardware wallets or offline solutions.

## 4. CometBFT Validator Configuration

> 
> First, retrieve your validator's consensus public key using the following 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In this section, we are going to create a configuration file
that specifies the properties of our validator.

First, retrieve your validator's consensus public key using the following 
```

`<home>` value in the example below. Subsequently run the following command to 
create the validator configuration file:

```shell
cat > <home>/config/validator.json << EOF
{
  "pubkey": {"@type":"/cosmos.crypto.ed25519.PubKey","key":"0Wlt7ZPl0uvv7onsw4gP8FSQJUk986zMcOdWselDPM4="},
  "amount": "1000000ubbn",
  "moniker": "my-validator",
  "commission-rate": "0.10",
  "commission-max-rate": "0.20",
  "commission-max-change-rate": "0.01",
  "min-self-delegation": "1"
}
EOF
```

Parameters:
- `pubkey`: Your validator's public key (the output you received before)
- `amount`: Initial self-delegation amount
- `moniker`: Your validator's name/identifier
- `commission-rate`: Validator commission rate 
- `commission-max-rate`: Specifies the maximum you can raise your commission in the future.
- `commission-max-change-rate`: Maximum daily commission change rate
- `min-self-delegation`: Minimum amount you must keep self-delegated

If you prefer to add this manually or are having issues, another option is to 
create a `validator.json` file manually and then paste the above json into it 
but remember to replace all values with the actual values you want to use.

## 5. Creating a Validator

> > ⚠️ **Important**: You will need a funded account for this step

Reviewer: How about we move this note before the execution of the `create-validator` command? Makes more sense to have it closer to the command that requires the funds

> ⚠️ **Important**: Please make sure to read through this section
> as it might not work with your automations for creating validators.

Unlike traditional Cosmos SDK chains that use the `staking` module, 

> Babylon uses the Babylon [`checkpointing`](https://docs.babylonlabs.io/docs/developer-guides/modules/checkpointing) module for validator creation and management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Babylon uses the [`checkpointing`](https://docs.babylonlabs.io/docs/developer-guides/modules/checkpointing)
module for validator creation and management.
```

The creation process requires your previously generated BLS key and your 

> validator key, which should be located at `<path>/config/validator.json`, 

Reviewer: The BLS key is not located on `<path>/config/validator.json`.

where `<path>` is the `--home` directory you specified when setting up your node.

> The BLS key in the file is required as validators use their BLS key to sign 

Reviewer: Where is the BLS key in the file?

checkpoint messages, which are aggregated and submitted to Bitcoin for finality.

To create your validator, run the following command:

```shell 
babylond tx checkpointing create-validator \
    ./<home-path>/config/validator.json \
    --chain-id bbn-test-5 \
    --gas "auto" \
    --gas-adjustment 1.5 \
    --gas-prices "0.005ubbn" \
    --from <your-key-name> \
    --keyring-backend <keyring-backend> \
    --home <path>
```

Parameters:
- `--chain-id`: The network identifier
- `--gas`: Set to "auto" to automatically calculate the gas needed
- `--gas-adjustment`: A multiplier for the estimated gas 
- `--gas-prices`: Transaction fee in ubbn per unit of gas
- `--from`: Your key name or address that will sign and pay for this transaction

> - `--keyring-backend`: Specifies the keyring backend to use for key management. 

Reviewer: Should the above key and keyring-backend correspond to the validator key created in Section 3? If so, we should mention it. We should also mention this in the note for funding the key.

  We have used `test` in our example.
- `--home`: Specifies the directory where your node files will be stored 

Upon successful creation, you'll be asked to approve the transaction. 
Once approved, you'll receive a transaction hash and your validator
operator address 
(e.g., `bbnvaloper1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`).

### 5.1 Verifying Validator Setup

To verify your validator setup, you can use the following steps:

First, get your validator's operator address using your Babylon address: 

```shell
babylond keys show <your-key-name> --address --bech val --home <path> --keyring-backend <keyring-backend>
```

For example, for the address we used above is `bbn1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`, 
the operator address is `bbnvaloper1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`. 

> For the next step, we will have to wait till the beginning of the next epoch 

Reviewer: I think we are giving the epochized validator creation explanation at the wrong place. It should not be given in the "verification of validator setup" section as many people might stop before that.

Instead, we should provide this explanation as required reading either prior or immediately after the `create-validator` command. Essentially, after the validator executes the `create-validator`, they receive an explanation as to what to expect to happen next. We can then have the "Verifying validator setup" section which just references the above explanation "e.g. as explained before, this will only work after the epoch ends..."

transaction was successful by checking its hash.

```shell 
babylond query staking validator <validator-operator-address>
```

The output should return the selected validator's configuration.

```yaml 
validator:
  commission:
    rates:
      current: "100000000000000000" 
      max: "1000000000000000000" 
      max_change: "10000000000000000"
  description:
    moniker: "my-validator" 
    website: "https://myweb.site" 
    security_contact: "my-validator0@gmail.com"
  status: 1 
  tokens: "100"
```

Usually when first creating a validator, the immediate status will be 
`BOND_STATUS_UNBONDED`. To see your validator's status change you will need to 
wait for the epoch to end.

### 5.2 Understanding Validator Status

Your validator enters the active set based on two conditions: 
1. Having sufficient stake to qualify for the active set.
2. The completion of the epoch (a network-wide time period for 
coordinating activities) in which your validator qualified for the active set.

When active, your status will show as `BOND_STATUS_BONDED`.

The other status codes are:

```shell
BOND_STATUS_UNSPECIFIED = 0
BOND_STATUS_UNBONDED = 1
BOND_STATUS_UNBONDING = 2
BOND_STATUS_BONDED = 3
```

> ### 5.3 Managing Your Validator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5.3 Staking to your Validator
```

> ⚠️ **Important**: Babylon uses the `epoching` module to wrap staking 
> operations. 
> All staking-related transactions (delegate, redelegate, unbond) must be 
> executed through the `x/epoching` module, the `x/epoching` module wraps the 
> commands of `x/staking` and all staking related transactions will take 

> > into effect at the end of the epoch.

Reviewer: This sentence does not look right

> For validator operations, please use the commands below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For staking operations, please use the commands below:
```

> For validator operations, use the standard Cosmos SDK staking module commands:

Reviewer 3: It's a little bit confusing at `use the standard Cosmos SDK staking module commands`.
Aren't validators expected to use `x/epoching` module` commands?

4.  [CometBFT Validator Configuration](#4-cometbft-validator-configuration)
5. [Creating a Validator](#5-creating-a-validator)
   1. [Verifying Validator Setup](#51-verifying-validator-setup)
   2. [Understanding Validator Status](#52-understanding-validator-status)
   3. [Managing Your Validator](#53-managing-your-validator)
6. [Advanced Security Architecture](#6-advanced-security-architecture)
7. [Conclusion](#7-conclusion)
<!-- 7. [Enhanced Monitoring](#7-enhanced-monitoring)
   1. [Prometheus Configuration](#71-prometheus-configuration)
   2. [Basic Health Checks](#72-basic-health-checks) -->

## 1. Prerequisites

Before setting up a validator, you'll need a fully synced Babylon node. For 
node setup instructions, see our [Node Setup Guide](../babylon-node/README.md).

## 2. System Requirements

Recommended specifications for running a Babylon validator node:
<!-- TODO: RPC Nodes more ram is required add when we have completed node load test  -->
- CPU: Quad Core AMD/Intel (amd64)
- RAM: 32GB
- Storage: 2TB NVMe
- Network: 100MBps bidirectional
- Encrypted storage for keys and sensitive data
- Regular system backups (hourly, daily, weekly)

> - DDoS protection

Reviewer 2: Does DDoS protection fit here? Usually validator doesn't expose any public endpoint (apart from p2p).

for checkpointing in the Bitcoin blockchain.

#### 3.2.2 Create BLS Key

To generate your BLS key, you'll need to use your validator address from the 
previous step. 

Run this command:

```shell
babylond create-bls-key <address> --home <path>
```

Replace `<address>` with your address from the earlier keyring 
generation (it should look similar to `bbn1kvajzzn6gtfn2x6ujfvd6q54etzxnqg7pkylk9`). 

The above command will:
1. Generate a new BLS key pair
2. Associate it with your validator address
3. Store it in your node's configuration file at 
`~/.<path>/config/priv_validator_key.json` alongside your validator key

This key will be used automatically by your validator software when it needs 
to participate in epoch-end signature collection. The BLS signatures help 
create compact, efficient proofs of consensus that can be later timestamped to 
Bitcoin.

> ⚠️ **Important**: The `priv_validator_key.json` file contains sensitive key 
> material. Make sure to backup this file and store it securely, as it's 
> essential for your validator's operation and cannot be recovered if lost.
> Note that BLS keys are currently not supported by Horcrux or other remote signing 

> > solutions, so additional security measures should be considered for key management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> solutions, so alternative security measures should be considered for key management.
```
Should we mention examples?

Now we can use the output of the command above and replace the `pubkey` and
`<home>` value in the example below. Subsequently run the following command to 
create the validator configuration file:

```shell
cat > <home>/config/validator.json << EOF
{
  "pubkey": {"@type":"/cosmos.crypto.ed25519.PubKey","key":"0Wlt7ZPl0uvv7onsw4gP8FSQJUk986zMcOdWselDPM4="},
  "amount": "1000000ubbn",
  "moniker": "my-validator",
  "commission-rate": "0.10",
  "commission-max-rate": "0.20",
  "commission-max-change-rate": "0.01",
  "min-self-delegation": "1"
}
EOF
```

Parameters:
- `pubkey`: Your validator's public key (the output you received before)
- `amount`: Initial self-delegation amount
- `moniker`: Your validator's name/identifier
- `commission-rate`: Validator commission rate 
- `commission-max-rate`: Specifies the maximum you can raise your commission in the future.
- `commission-max-change-rate`: Maximum daily commission change rate
- `min-self-delegation`: Minimum amount you must keep self-delegated

If you prefer to add this manually or are having issues, another option is to 
create a `validator.json` file manually and then paste the above json into it 

> but remember to replace all values with the actual values you want to use.

Reviewer 2: Not needed.

- `--gas-adjustment`: A multiplier for the estimated gas 
- `--gas-prices`: Transaction fee in ubbn per unit of gas
- `--from`: Your key name or address that will sign and pay for this transaction
- `--keyring-backend`: Specifies the keyring backend to use for key management. 
  We have used `test` in our example.
- `--home`: Specifies the directory where your node files will be stored 

Upon successful creation, you'll be asked to approve the transaction. 
Once approved, you'll receive a transaction hash and your validator
operator address 
(e.g., `bbnvaloper1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`).

### 5.1 Verifying Validator Setup

To verify your validator setup, you can use the following steps:

First, get your validator's operator address using your Babylon address: 

```shell
babylond keys show <your-key-name> --address --bech val --home <path> --keyring-backend <keyring-backend>
```

For example, for the address we used above is `bbn1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`, 
the operator address is `bbnvaloper1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`. 

For the next step, we will have to wait till the beginning of the next epoch 

> (this will take approx 10 minutes) for the command to be valid. This is due to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(this will take up to 10 minutes) for the command to be valid. This is due to 
```

# Delegate tokens to a validator
babylond tx epoching delegate [validator-addr] [amount] \
    --from <delegator-key> \
    --chain-id <chain-id>

# Redelegate tokens from one validator to another
babylond tx epoching redelegate [src-validator-addr] [dst-validator-addr] [amount] \
    --from <delegator-key> \
    --chain-id <chain-id>

# Unbond tokens from a validator
babylond tx epoching unbond [validator-addr] [amount] \
    --from <delegator-key> \
    --chain-id <chain-id>
```

For more information on the epoching module and wrapped messages, see the 
[Epoching Module](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/babylon/blob/main/x/epoching/README.md?plain=1#L150-L155) 
documentation. 

## 6. Advanced Security Architecture

Each validator's needs are significantly varied based on their operational needs 
and the environment they are running in. Before setting up your validator 
infrastructure, take time to research different security architectures, including 
the [Sentry Node Architecture](https://hub.cosmos.network/main/validators/security#sentry-nodes-ddos-protection). 
This setup involves using intermediary nodes to protect your validator from 
direct exposure to the public network.

> Additionally, the andling of the `priv_validator_key.json` file is critical. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, the handling of the `priv_validator_key.json` file is critical. 
```

    --gas-prices "0.005ubbn" \
    --from <your-key-name> \
    --keyring-backend <keyring-backend> \
    --home <path>
```

Parameters:
- `--chain-id`: The network identifier
- `--gas`: Set to "auto" to automatically calculate the gas needed
- `--gas-adjustment`: A multiplier for the estimated gas 
- `--gas-prices`: Transaction fee in ubbn per unit of gas
- `--from`: Your key name or address that will sign and pay for this transaction
- `--home`: Specifies the directory where your node files will be stored. 
- `--keyring-backend`: Specifies the keyring backend to use for key management. 
  This should correspond to your validator key that you set in 
  [Step 3](#32-babylon-validator-account-keyring), 
  in our example we used `test`.

> **Note**: Make sure the account specified by `--from` has enough tokens to 
> cover both the stake amount and transaction fees. This is the same account 
> you created and funded earlier in 
> [Section 3](#32-babylon-validator-account-keyring).

Upon successful creation, you'll be asked to approve the transaction, 
within the transaction you will find your validator's operator address.
(e.g., `bbnvaloper1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`).

> Although your validator has been created and you have your operator address, 
> it will not be active until the end of the current epoch. This means you will 
> not receive delegations until then. This delay is due to Babylon's epoched 
> staking design, where the blockchain operates in defined epochs.
> 
> Messages affecting the validator set are processed at the end of each epoch, 
> so your validator creation transaction will only take effect at that time. 
> Additionally, you will only be able to query your validator details once the 
> next epoch begins. In the meantime, you can verify the success of your 
> transaction by checking its hash, which was generated and outputted following 
> the signing process in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After your validator creation transaction has been successfully submitted,
the Babylon blockchain will register your validator, but it will not activate
it until the end of the epoch. This is due to Babylon's epoched validator
set rotation mechanism, in which validator set and stake updates can
only happen at the end of each epoch. Each epoch lasts for about
60 minutes in the current testnet.

> Note: You will not be able to query your validator details until
> the start of the next epoch. You can verify that your creation
> transaction has been registered by verifying the inclusion
> of its transaction hash in the blockchain.
```

The "Note" can be formatted like our other notices.

### 5.1 Verifying Validator Setup

To verify your validator setup, you can use the following steps:

First, get your validator's operator address using your Babylon address: 

```shell
babylond keys show <your-key-name> --address --bech val --home <path> --keyring-backend <keyring-backend>
```

For example, for the address we used above is `bbn1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`, 
the operator address is `bbnvaloper1qh8444k43spt6m8ernm8phxr332k85teavxmuq`. 

For the next step, we will query your validator's details; however, results 

> will not appear until the current epoch concludes, which typically takes 10 to 
> 60 minutes. This delay is due to the network's epoching mechanism, as mentioned 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will not appear until the current epoch concludes (epochs last for 60 minutes).
This delay is due to the network's epoching mechanism, as mentioned 
```
